# ARGOS Pipeline

This document summarizes the current state of the Automated RecoGnition Of
Species (ARGOS) processing pipeline.

## File Structure

The ARGOS systems presumes that data is stored according to a specific file
structure. The `config.py` file defines the `ARGOS_ROOT` variable, which
specifies the location of the top of the ARGOS file system. This allows the
user to easily run on multiple systems. All data is then arranged according to
the following schema:

```unix
ARGOS_ROOT/year/month/day/site_name/obliques
ARGOS_ROOT/year/month/day/site_name/altitude/images/...
ARGOS_ROOT/year/month/day/site_name/altitude/maps/...
```

The obliques folder contains all "oblique" images and videos captured for a
given site, typically from a variety of altitudes. The `images/` directory
contains all high resolution images captured at the given site at the specified
altitude. The `maps/` directory contains the high-resolution georeferenced map
file, `map.tif`, as well as a lower-resolution map called `map_small.jpg`. As
additional species maps are generated for the flight they will be written to
the corresponding `maps/` directory.

As a concrete example, here is the location of the first image taken during the
St. John's 66 ft flight on 03 August 2018:

```unix
ARGOS_ROOT/2018/08/03/st_johns_marsh/66/images/DJI_0001.JPG
```

And the corresponding georeferenced map can be found at:

```unix
ARGOS_ROOT/2018/08/03/st_johns_marsh/66/maps/map.tif
```

Note that by convention all site names are lowercase and contain only letters,
numbers, and underscores; punctuation and spaces are verboten.

## Database

ARGOS relies on a MongoDB database running on the local host. The database is
named `ARGOS`, and it contains three collections:

```unix
targets
ground_truth
annotations
```

The `targets` collection stores descriptions of all valid Annotation Targets
(see below). The `ground_truth` collection stores all field-collected,
georeferenced ground truth. Finally, `annotations` organizes all manual tile
annotations made via the user interface.

Note also that when the `database` module is imported, `targets`,
`ground_truth`, and a so-called `truth_tree` are loaded into memory. (The
`truth_tree` is a [ball tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ball_tree), a
metric tree that allows for very fast searches over points in multidimensional
spaces, and which dramatically speeds up the association of ground truth points
with maps and images.) These objects are used throughout the ARGOS software,
and—particularly for the computation of the truth tree—pre-computing these
objects can save a lot of time.

## Maps

ARGOS is concerned with producing maps. We start with two primary maps,
generated by stitching together individual drone images. The first is a 2
inch/pixel resolution map in `TIF` format that is fully georeferenced; this map
is used for building the detailed target species heat maps, etc. The second is
a 20 inch/pixel resolution map in `JPG` format. This is used for web-display
interfaces. As described above, all maps are stored in the directory
corresponding to the date, site, and altitude of the flight.

## Annotation Targets

Annotation targets include plant species that the ARGOS system will learn to
classify, such as *Frangula alnus*, but also non-biological features such as
sand, water, rocks, and man-made features such as asphalt.

Viable Annotation Targets (ATs) are stored in the MongoDB database in the
`targets` collection. They are available via the `database.py` module by
calling `get_targets()`.  The AT objects contain six fields: `scientific_name`,
`codes`, `common_name`, `physiognomy`, `category`, and `color_code`.

As an example:

```json
{
    "scientific_name": "Achillea millifolium",
    "codes": ["AM"], 
    "common_name": "Yarrow",
    "physiognomy": "Forb",  
    "category": "Native",
    "color_code": "#0cb577"
}
```

Categories include `['Invasive', 'Native', 'Natural Feature', 'Man-made
Feature']`. Possible values for physiognomy include `['Forb', 'Graminoid',
'Shrub', 'Tree', 'N/A']`. Codes are used to associate collected ground truth
with a target. Color codes determine the color used during image annotation, as
well as the color used to display ground truth points on maps and
high-resolution images.

In order to ingest annotation targets into the database, run:

```unix
> python ingest.py
```

This will clear the database of existing ATs and insert new ones, as defined in
the `ingest.py` and in the `truth/target_key.xlsx` file.  

## Ground Truth

Field collected ground truth is also loaded into the database via the
`ingest.py` script. The ingest.py script will load all the shape files
available in the files located in the `truth/` directory. These are inserted
into the database, and have the following format:

```json
{
    "geolocation": [-83.48602, 43.70615, 137.464798], 
    "latlon": [43.70615, -83.48602],  
    "name": "LS 08-06-2018 10:26:53", 
    "code": "LS",           
    "symbol": "Flag, Blue",  
    "datetime": "2018-08-06T14:26:48Z"
}
```

Ground truth needs to be mapped to images and maps in order to dislpay the
location of important plants and features. In the case of georeferenced maps,
this can be done using the `place_ground_truth_on_map` function, in the
`ground_truth_mapping.py` module.

## API

The ARGOS API provides access to images, etc. We define the following endpoints:

### GET /maps

The `/maps` endpoint returns an array of map objects, as defined above.


### GET /maps/<map_id>

This endpoint returns a specific map object, as well as the associated ground
truth information and map image size:

```json
{
    "map": target_map,
    "ground_truth": nearby_ground_truth,
    "unique_truth": unique_ground_truth,
    "image_rows": 450,
    "image_cols": 658
}


